Is it true that after the great Chicago fire, the Queen Victoria sent some money for a library?
I've heard that, yeah.
I guess it's true.
To replace the library that was destroyed, but the irony is there was no library that was lost in the fire.
So what?
Somebody mentioned that to me.
Yeah, I've heard that story.
I'd like to nail that down.
I'm going to tell all these little kinds of stories.
So all these things were happening at this point.
Give me just a little background on yourself, the biographical stuff that...
I'm someone who came here as a student and never left.
Came here in 72 to do graduate work in history.
Decided fairly early on that I really wasn't primarily interested in teaching.
Wasn't sure I had a vocation for teaching.
But I knew I wanted to be an academic.
Well, what's the other way you can be an academic?
You can be an academic librarian.
And at that point, I guess I thought I could get in through the back door and wouldn't have to go to library school.
which longer ago would have been true, but isn't true anymore.
So I got a job here in Special Collections while I was writing my dissertation as a way of testing this idea of, you know, what would it be like to be a librarian, and decided that I definitely liked it.
And Bob Rosenthal convinced me that I really did need to go to library school.
So after I got my PhD in history,
I went to library school here.
So you've been here for 18 years?
I have been here for 18 years, yeah.
And how are you from Illinois?
I was born downstate and then grew up in Indiana.
So Chicago has always been the closest big city for me.
What's the best way to drive to Bloomington from here?
Let's say I get on Lakeshore Drive, right, and take it down to one of those interstates?
Yeah.
Right.
In Gary, you can get I-65, which angles down to Indianapolis.
I'm going to check my map tonight.
I figured somebody from Indiana might focus on those.
Yeah, I-65 from Gary to Indianapolis, and then Kwan's on.
Tell me.
Let's start again.
When Haven O'Moore was here, he stopped by to see Bob Rosenthal.
He was in Chicago for something else.
How did he know Rosenthal?
He's there.
I know Book Connections somehow.
And I remember Bob took him down to the vault, and there was something that his eyes lighted on immediately in the Regenstein section of the vault.
And he pulled it off and looked at it.
I wish I could remember what it was.
I can't think what it was.
He pulled something off, and he said, you know, when she bought this, I was a runner-up.
Oh.
Because he spotted that immediately, and that was what he thought of.
When did she buy it?
It would have been something in the 70s sometime.
Yeah.
According to George Laurie at Swan's, he had just started, he told me about when Hayden just arrived in the scene.
He said he was like a meteor flashing across the sky.
Because we didn't know what to make of him.
He scared us.
He scared us because, you know, all of a sudden a new person arrives.
He said he was runner-up to Mrs. Regenstein.
Yeah, so it was something, it would have been something in English or American lit.
It had to be a major thing, too.